= Everywhere

Hash condition syntax for AR query everywhere!


== Features

=== where + not

"+Everywhere+" enables you to construct where + not query such as below using AR Hash query syntax.

  SELECT "users".* FROM "users" WHERE ("users"."name" != 'foo')
  SELECT "users".* FROM "users" WHERE ("users"."created_at" IS NOT NULL)
  SELECT "users".* FROM "users" WHERE ("users"."status" NOT IN ('inactive', 'deleted'))

=== where + like

Same for where + like.

  SELECT "users".* FROM "users" WHERE ("users"."name" LIKE 'Akira%')

=== where + not like

And where + "not like" as well.

  SELECT "users".* FROM "users" WHERE ("users"."name" NOT LIKE 'Matz%')


== Syntaxes

"+Everywhere+" supports 5 syntaxes. Note that you can use only one syntax at a time, and others will be disabled.
The +hash_value+ syntax will be enabled by default.

* chain
+Model.where+ with no args can be chained with +not+, +like+, and +not_like+ methods.
This syntax was proposed by Jeremy Kemper: https://github.com/rails/rails/pull/5950#issuecomment-5591330

    User.where.not(:name => 'foo')
     => SELECT "users".* FROM "users" WHERE ("users"."name" != 'foo')

* hash_value
Push the value into a Hash indexed by +:not+.
Similar to MongoDB. http://www.mongodb.org/display/DOCS/Advanced+Queries#AdvancedQueries-%24ne

    User.where(:name => {:not => 'foo'})
     => SELECT "users".* FROM "users" WHERE ("users"."name" != 'foo')

* hash_key
Put the whole key + value Hash into another Hash indexed by +:not+.

    User.where(:not => {:name => 'foo'})
     => SELECT "users".* FROM "users" WHERE ("users"."name" != 'foo')

* symbol
Put +:not+ as the first parameter of +where+ method.

    User.where(:not, :name => 'foo')
     => SELECT "users".* FROM "users" WHERE ("users"."name" != 'foo')

* method
Use the special method named +where_not+.

    User.where_not(:name => 'foo')
     => SELECT "users".* FROM "users" WHERE ("users"."name" != 'foo')

See specs for more details.


== Supported versions

ActiveRecord 3.0.x, 3.1.x, and 3.2 (edge)


== Usage

Bundle 'everywhere' gem.


== Configuring the syntax

You can choose one from four syntaxes listed above.
For example, if you prefer the symbol syntax, put the following line in your config file.

  config.active_record.where_syntax = :symbol

The default value is +:hash_value+.


== Contributing to Everywhere

* Fork, fix, then send me a pull request.


== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2011 Akira Matsuda. See MIT-LICENSE for further details.
